### Two-year monitoring of biofilm microbial communities colonizing granules within Biological Oxygen-dosed Activated Carbon (BODAC) filters

This repository contains the analysis of microbial communities comprising biofilms in Biological Oxygen-Dosed Activated Carbon. The dataset describes the two-year temporal dynamics of microbial communities in trimonthly collected samples of granule biofilms and backwashed water from two consecutive BODAC filters operated at full scale in an UltraPureWater factory near Emmen, The Netherlands.
The water purification performance of the BODAC filters demonstrated remarkable stability in terms of system performance for (yet) ~12 years, without a replacement of activated carbon. Regular backwashing of the filters is responsible for the prevention of saturation, while subsequent regeneration of microbial biofilms with hypothesized stable composition facilitates remarkable efficiency in water purification without downstream reverse osmosis membrane fouling in the system. 

Here we investigated BODAC communities to determine differences between consecutive filters, to assess if a core community characterizes the biofilms in the BODAC filters, and whether the biofilm communities stably regenerated after regular backwashing.

Input data were created by sequencing 16S rRNA gene amplicons using primers 515F and 926R on Illumina Miseq (300 bp PE). Fastq sequence files were analyzed using QIIME2 (scripts can be found in the scripts/QIIME2/ directory) and the feature table, taxonomic assignments, phylogeny, and metadata were imported into R (available from input_data/). The [SILVA database v.132](https://www.arb-silva.de/documentation/release-138/) was used as reference data for taxonomic assignments. This analysis will be submitted as **Bernadet et al. (in prep)** "URL DOI" titled *Two-year monitoring of biofilm microbial communities colonizing granules within Biological Oxygen-dosed Activated Carbon (BODAC) filters*.
